README.md, before:

# Medical Image Enhancement 🩻✨

This project is a **Medical Image Enhancement Studio** built with Python.  
It provides two essential techniques for improving visibility of medical images:

- **Histogram Equalization** – improves contrast by redistributing pixel intensity values.  
- **Power-Law (Gamma) Transformation** – enhances details by controlling brightness and contrast.  

## 🚀 Features
- Simple Tkinter GUI interface
- Upload and preview medical images
- Apply Histogram Equalization
- Apply Gamma Transformation (with user-controlled gamma values)
- Display before/after results and histograms
- Export enhanced images for reports

## 🛠️ Installation
Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/crew3302/Medical-Image-Enhancement.git
cd Medical-Image-Enhancement
```

Install the dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## ▶️ Usage
Run the application:
```bash
python app.py
```
## 📂 Dataset
All the dataset are available in the **dataset/** folder:
- `Dataset/` → Complete Dataset

## 📂 Report
All documentation are available in the **report/** folder:
- `Report.docx` → final report

## 📂 Output GUI
All the screenshots are available in the **output/** folder:
- `output/` → contains before/after comparisons and histograms

## 📂 Output CLI
All the screenshots are available in the **cli_output/** folder:
- `cli_output/` → contains after comparisons and histograms via commad

Commit message:

docs: update Acknowledgments and Contact section in README

README.md, after:

# Medical Image Enhancement 🩻✨

This project is a **Medical Image Enhancement Studio** built with Python.  
It provides two essential techniques for improving visibility of medical images:

- **Histogram Equalization** – improves contrast by redistributing pixel intensity values.  
- **Power-Law (Gamma) Transformation** – enhances details by controlling brightness and contrast.  

## 🚀 Features
- 🖼️ **Dual Enhancement Techniques**  
  - **Histogram Equalization** – automatic, high-impact contrast improvement.  
  - **Gamma Transformation** – manual brightness and tonal range control.  

- 🖥️ **Interactive GUI** – clean Tkinter interface with real-time image updates.  
- 📊 **Instant Histogram Analysis** – compare pixel distribution before and after.  
- ⚡ **Side-by-Side Comparison** – visualize enhancement results instantly.  
- 💾 **Export Functionality** – save enhanced images and histograms for reports.  
- ⌨️ **CLI Mode** – batch process images or integrate into pipelines.  


## 🛠️ Installation
Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/crew3302/Medical-Image-Enhancement.git
cd Medical-Image-Enhancement
```

Install the dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## ▶️ Usage
Run the application:
```bash
python app.py
```
## 📂 Dataset
All the dataset are available in the **dataset/** folder:
- `Dataset/` → Complete Dataset

## 📂 Report
All documentation are available in the **report/** folder:
- `Report.docx` → final report

## 📂 Output GUI
All the screenshots are available in the **output/** folder:
- `output/` → contains before/after comparisons and histograms

## 📂 Output CLI
All the screenshots are available in the **cli_output/** folder:
- `cli_output/` → contains after comparisons and histograms via commad

## 🙏 Acknowledgments
- Developed as part of the academic curriculum.  
- Special thanks to the **Chest X-Ray (Pneumonia) Dataset** on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/paultimothymooney/chest-xray-pneumonia) for providing publicly available data used for testing and validation.  

---

## 📧 Contact
👤 **Muhammad Sohaib**  
🔗 GitHub: [crew3302](https://github.com/crew3302)  
📌 Project Link: [Medical-Image-Enhancement](https://github.com/crew3302/Medical-Image-Enhancement)
